Date: 04 June 2012 15:50
Title: Caching external HTTP requests with VCR in Rack
Categories: ruby, unicorn, vcr, rack, caching, webmock
Summary: I was recently working on a project to build continuous integration performance tests on an application which makes extensive HTTP based calls to a middleware application. I was running in to issues where the middleware calls were unstable in the test, stage and load test environments. For the purpose of these tests, I was only interested in the render times of the Rails calls. The obvious choice seemed to cache the external HTTP requests. 


# Caching external HTTP requests with VCR in Rack

I was recently working on a project to build continuous integration performance tests on an application which makes extensive HTTP based calls to a middleware application. I was running in to issues where the middleware calls were unstable in the test, stage and load test environments. For the purpose of these tests, I was only interested in the render times of the Rails calls. The obvious choice seemed to cache the external HTTP requests. 

[Enter VCR](https://www.relishapp.com/myronmarston/vcr/docs). VCR is a test tool designed to cache external HTTP requests. It uses your favorite mocking tool ([webmock](https://github.com/bblimke/webmock), [flexmock](http://flexmock.rubyforge.org/), etc.) and records HTTP requests and saves them in a YAML (or optionally JSON) file. 

I decided to run a standalone instance of the server with a custom Rack config implementing VCR as a caching layer for initial HTTP requests. After a bit of hacking, it turned out to be way simpler then I expected.

#### Install VCR and Mock framework

Along with VCR, I choose webmock, or rather it was choosen for me -- it's the mock framework currently used in the application I work on.

Install VCR

    $ gem install vcr
    $ gem install webmock

Or via Gemfile

    :::ruby
    # file: <app_root>/Gemfile
    sources :rubygems
    
    group :performance do
      gem 'vcr'
      gem 'webmock'
    end
    

#### Configure Rack

Next add the following to your Rack config file.

    :::ruby
    # file: <app_root>/config.ru

    # only use cache when running performance tests   
    if ENV['RACK_ENV'] == "performance" 
      require 'vcr'
      require 'webmock'
     
      # configure VCR 
      VCR.configure do |c|
        c.cassette_library_dir  = './cache/' # where to save cache files
        c.hook_into             = :webmock   # select mock framework
      end
     
      use VCR::Middleware::Rack do |cassette|
        cassette.name     'cassette'
        cassette.options  :record => :new_episodes,  # record only new requests
                            :match_requests_on => [:host, :path] 
                                                     # define new by host and/or path changes
      end
    end
    
    ... your app config ...
    


#### So what does this record?

For this example, imagine that your application is making an external call to a service which returns data about a passed keyword. We'll define the host as "example.org" and the URI format as "/q/<keyword>".

1. http://example.org/q/food   -- recorded
1. http://example.org/q/bar     -- recorded
1. http://example.org/q/food   -- from cache
1. http://example.org/q/bar     -- from cache
1. etc., etc., etc.


### VCR as a Production Cache

VCR+Rack can be used in this way, although it could be slow if you're caching a large number of HTTP requests or your cached requests are large themselves. 

Also, I would add an expiration to your cache, which is supported in newer version of VCR

While this is untested, it should look something like this.

    :::ruby
    # file: <app_root>/config.ru
    
    require 'vcr'
    require 'webmock'
    VCR.configure do |c|
      c.cassette_library_dir  = './cache/'
      c.hook_into             = :webmock
    end
    use VCR::Middleware::Rack do |cassette|
      cassette.name     'cassette'
      cassette.option   :record => :new_episodes,  
                          :re_record_interval => 5.minutes, # expire every 5 minutes
                          :match,requests_on => [:host, :path]
    end
    
    ... your app config ...
    

The primary issue with this is that all cached requests are stored in a YAML file as a serialized HTTP objects. This can be quite large. If you're making many different quests and/or the results are large, the cache file can quickly become unwieldy (I've seen 150K line YAML files) and the parse time can actually take a while. Use this solution at your own risk and performance test with and without a full cache before putting it in a production environment.


Enjoy! 
