Date: 30 May 2012 00:32
Title: Configurable Template Engine in Sinatra
Categories: ruby, sinatra, haml, erb
Summary: A lot of people have taken to using HAML, example "sinatra-authentication" uses it by default. I personally don't like it, but I don't judge either. So that said, I wish that more apps out there would steer away from implicitly defining haml calls in their apps. Here's an easy way to allow the template engine to be configurable in Sinatra


# Configurable Template Engine in Sinatra

A lot of people have taken to using HAML, example "sinatra-authentication" uses it by default. I personally don't like it, but I don't judge either. So that said, I wish that more apps out there would steer away from implicitly defining haml calls in their apps. Here's an easy way to allow the template engine to be configurable in Sinatra

    configure do
      set :template_engine, :haml
    end
    
    get "/" do
      send settings.template_engine, :index
    end
    
    get "/no_layout" do
      send settings.template_engine, :no_layout, :layout => false
    end



If you want to get tricky, you could also use haml if it's installed, otherwise, default to erb with this...

    begin
      require 'haml'
      @template = :haml
    rescue LoadError
      @template = :erb
    end
    
    configure do
      set :template_engine, @template
    end
  
#### note

I'm still setting using "set", to ensure that it's available in templates for those times when you're nesting template calls

    # views/some_template.erb
    <p>
      <%= send settings.template_engine, :nested_template, :layout => false %>
    </p>

While true that you could perhaps assume "erb" in the above example, erb is always loaded. This example would allow you manually call an "erb" include which chooses "haml" or whatever, based on your setting. Edge-case perhaps, but still.

