Date: 16 June 2012 15:48
Title: Setting up NewRelic on Sinatra
Categories: ruby, unicorn, sinatra, rack, rails, newrelic, rackup
Summary: This week I spent some time setting a [NewRelic](http://newrelic.com/) application on a [Sinatra](/tag/sinatra) app. It actually turned out to be so simple that I almost hesitate to do a post on it, but hey, here it is any way.


# Setting up NewRelic on Sinatra

This week I spent some time setting a [NewRelic](http://newrelic.com/) application on a [Sinatra](/tag/sinatra) app. It actually turned out to be so simple that I almost hesitate to do a post on it, but hey, here it is any way.

### Install NewRelic

    gem install newrelic_rpm

#### With [Bundler](/tag/bundler)

    :::ruby
    # file: <app_root>/Gemfile
    source :rubygems
    gem 'newrelic_rpm

### Configure NewRelic

This is something you'll have to [a bit of research](https://newrelic.com/docs/ruby/ruby-agent-configuration). For the most part, the [default NewRelic configuration](https://gist.github.com/2942312) (as of 2012-06-16) is setup with [Rails](/tag/rails) defaults. That said, for the most part it will work with your [Sinatra](/tag/sinatra) app. Here's and example of what I would typically start with.


    :::yaml
    common: &default_settings
      license_key: '<your_newrelic_key>'
      app_name: My Application
      monitor_mode: true
      developer_mode: false
      log_level: info
      ssl: false
      apdex_t: 0.5
      capture_params: false
      transaction_tracer:
        enabled: true
        transaction_threshold: apdex_f
        record_sql: obfuscated
        stack_trace_threshold: 0.500
      error_collector:
        enabled: true
        capture_source: true    
        ignore_errors: "NoMethodError"

    development:
      <<: *default_settings
      monitor_mode: false
      developer_mode: true
      log_level: debug

    test:
      <<: *default_settings
      monitor_mode: true
      app_name: My Application (Test)
      log_level: debug

    production:
      <<: *default_settings
      monitor_mode: true

    staging:
      <<: *default_settings
      monitor_mode: true
      app_name: My Application (Staging)


Some important things to note; 

* This configuration is keyed off of your 'RACK_ENV' setting, so be sure set it when starting your app server
* 'log\_level: debug' dumps data in to '\<app\_root\>/log/newrelic_agent.log'

### Adding NewRelic to your Application

This is the part that I expected to be way more complicated then it actually was. The above is basically identical to [Rails](/tag/rails), aside from some slight tweaks to the configuration, so this is really the main divergence.


    :::ruby
    # file: <app_root>/config.ru
    $:.unshift File.expand_path(File.dirname(__FILE__))
    
    require "app"
    require 'newrelic_rpm'
    NewRelic::Agent.after_fork(:force_reconnect => true)
    
    run App.new


### Gotchas

* It's important to note the order you load newrelic_rpm in your config.ru -- you must require your app before NewRelic for things to setup correctly.
* The application I was setting this up for used _**rackup**_ as it's development app server, the above did not work when using [rack](/tag/rack). Once I started the application using [Unicorn](/tag/unicorn) (which is what it's using in test, stage and production) things worked as expected.



That's pretty much it, start your app and enjoy! 
