Date: 29 June 2013 12:00
Title: Stubbing Binaries for Testing
Categories: notes, bash, testing, ruby, nodejs

# Stubbing Binaries for Testing

Being a Dev Ops guy, I write [gems](/gems), scripts and hacks that tend to hook in to system binaries. I know, it would probably be better to write C bindings, but heretofore that hasn't been something I really want to tackle. Additionally, I almost always write tests for my stuff. I've come across the problem where my tests pass locally, but not on [Travis-CI](http://travis-ci.org). Which annoys me to no end... hences this tweet:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p>I hate it when <a href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23travis&amp;src=hash">#travis</a>-ci breaks working tests. It becomes and obsession...</p>&mdash; Joshua Mervine (@mervinej) <a href="https://twitter.com/mervinej/statuses/351048894009966592">June 29, 2013</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

> Yes, I noticed the typo... `s/ and / an /`... better?

The way I've solved this is by building a method to define the binary location in my utilities and stubbing the binaries in a very simple method. Simply put, I have a shell script named for the binary that `echo`'s the standard output and ends with `exit 0`. 

Now, for this to work most effiecntly, you have to also stub the parsed output in your tests, so you can control that output in a more testable way.

## Examples

These examples come from [HTTPerf.rb](/gems/httperfrb), whose source can be found [here](http://github.com/jmervine/httperfrb].

#### Binary Stub - `httperf`

    :::shell
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "httperf --client=0/1 --server=localhost --port=80 --uri=/ --send-buffer=4096 --recv-buffer=16384 --num-conns=1 --num-calls=1
    httperf: warning: open file limit > FD_SETSIZE; limiting max. # of open files to FD_SETSIZE
    Maximum connect burst length: 0

    Total: connections 1 requests 1 replies 1 test-duration 0.000 s

    Connection rate: 4524.6 conn/s (0.2 ms/conn, <=1 concurrent connections)
    Connection time [ms]: min 0.2 avg 0.2 max 0.2 median 0.5 stddev 0.0
    Connection time [ms]: connect 0.1
    Connection length [replies/conn]: 1.000

    Request rate: 4524.6 req/s (0.2 ms/req)
    Request size [B]: 62.0

    Reply rate [replies/s]: min 0.0 avg 0.0 max 0.0 stddev 0.0 (0 samples)
    Reply time [ms]: response 0.1 transfer 0.0
    Reply size [B]: header 154.0 content 168.0 footer 0.0 (total 322.0)
    Reply status: 1xx=0 2xx=0 3xx=0 4xx=1 5xx=0

    CPU time [s]: user 0.00 system 0.00 (user 0.0% system 0.0% total 0.0%)
    Net I/O: 1696.7 KB/s (13.9*10^6 bps)

    Errors: total 0 client-timo 0 socket-timo 0 connrefused 0 connreset 0
    Errors: fd-unavail 0 addrunavail 0 ftab-full 0 other 0
    "
    exit 0
    # vim: filetype=sh:

[view on github](https://github.com/jmervine/httperfrb/blob/master/spec/httperf)


#### Result Stubbing - `httperf`

I read in sample data from text files and make them globally accessable for all tests.

    :::ruby
    # file: spec_helper.rb
    # ...
    $results_raw = File.open("./spec/dummy_results.txt","r").read
    $verbose_raw = File.open("./spec/dummy_verbose_results.txt","r").read
    # ...

[view on github](https://github.com/jmervine/httperfrb/blob/master/spec/spec_helper.rb)

You can see the text files here:

* [dummy_results.txt](https://github.com/jmervine/httperfrb/blob/master/spec/dummy_results.txt)
* [dummy_verbose_results.txt](https://github.com/jmervine/httperfrb/blob/master/spec/dummy_verbose_results.txt)

I'm sure there are other ways. I'm sure there are better ways. This way has worked for me thus far and fixes the issue with `httperf` not being available on [Travis-CI](http://travis-ci.org).



